---
layout: post
title:  "Red Flags"
date:   2014-10-09 14:03:43
categories: Freelance
---

Most of us aren’t trained negotiators, I know I’m not. But a little bit of that comes in handy when you’re discussing terms and prices for your projects with clients. It’s hard to know when you’re being played, sometimes. It can be subtle a shift of control and leave you in a unpleasant situation.

Personally, not an expert in this, this is what I’ve come across and would love to hear your stories and thoughts.

### Undercut
The first major red flag is being undercut. This is when the client subtle or not so subtle chips away at your rate. It’s one thing to be told that your rates don’t fit within their budget and discuss what would fit their needs and your time. It’s another thing to suggest or declare that you’re charging too them much.

What this translates into is: “you’re not worth that”. If you perceive that to be the attitude at the beginning, I doubt that the ensuing project will be smooth sailing. The truth is that they don’t value you (or don’t understand your value).

I tend to walk away if someone flat out says that my rate is too high and I should be charging less. Typically that’s a client that will try to scrape every bit of your time & energy while they have you. The reality is you don’t work for Burger King. Do the math, if you’re charging $1000 for a project and work more than 40 hours you’re making you’re earning less than $25/hr. With someone who intentionally undermines your value will take more of your time than you expect turning that $25 into even less by the minute.

(Going hourly rate from what I’ve seen/researched is around $67)

### Add-Ons
The person who finds extra things for you to do while they have your attention, that you haven’t agreed to that are beyond the scope of your project. Typically this comes in big to little requests like while you’re working on their website, they ask to “proofread our copy” or “redesign our logo”. These requests pile up and are things you likely haven’t agreed to doing, after you say no and they try and guilt you into doing them anyway. Walk away.

### Copy Cat
Clients that ask for prescribed solutions that exist for others and want a carbon copy of the same thing typically aren’t ones worth working with, so don’t. Here’s an example a client really likes

### Won’t Pay Your Expenses


### There Are Good People in the World
